G Gordon Liddy was on fear factor. He was, yeah. Oh, I didn't know that.
Interesting guy. He hold his hand above a flame. No, he didn't.
But we did hang him by his ankles and slam them into a pool,
like over and over and over again, he was, I forget what the stunt was,
but I was like, Jesus, this guy's old to be doing this. But, uh, he did, uh,
some physical challenges.
I remember thinking like this guy is more fit and more active
than most young people.
And he was deep into his sixties at the time when we had him on fear factor.
The only thing that screwed him up was in the end,
the final stunt was a driving stunt and it was at night and unfortunately his
eyes are not that good. And he just couldn't see, well, without glasses.
So as he was driving the car, he slammed into something or something.
Got what it was when he got them there. No, it's all right. But uh,
he had a chance to talk to him for a few days. He did hang out with them.
Very interesting guy. Yeah, yeah.
Yep. That's right. He had a talk show back in the nineties. I was on when, uh,
my first book came out, white people believe were things.
And I talked about conspiracies there. And so he, he asked me, well,
tell me about conspiracies. Well, you tell me about conspiracy, you know,
more than I do knows about real one.
The real ones. Yeah.
That is my number one beef with conspiracy theories is that when you, you know,
some of them that are so preposterous, like whether it's flat earth or what,
what were the really dumb ones? There's a base on the opposite side of the moon.
And NASA knows about all the daily ins are living.
In New Mexico. The lizard people, the.
Problem with those is they undermine actual conspiracies, right? When you,
when you hear about preposterous things and they, they get false,
they get categorized as conspiracy theories. Then when someone says, well,
there's a conspiracy about this. Well,
it's already a tainted idea because the word conspiracy is connected to
nonsense, right? Because there's so many nonsense, conspiracy theories,
it's hard to recognize, oh, something like Enron that really did happen. Yeah.
There, there is the Northwoods papers.
There's a bunch of like legitimate conspiracies. You're like, wow. You know,
you find out what the Gulf of Tonkin. You're like, well, they really did.
Yep. That's right. Yeah.
I'm writing a paper now on why people believe conspiracies.
And so I go through the whole list of all the psychological things,
but I am with the whole second half is because a lot of them are true and there
are reasons we should be suspicious. Let's just think of, uh, the, uh, the,
the WikiLeaks or the Panama papers, you know, like the Panama papers,
here's all these billionaires opening. These shell corporations,
keeping their money. They're not paying tax. That's a conspiracy, you know,
by definition to them,
are people meeting in secret to conspire to benefit themselves that harms the
public good or other people.
This happens a lot in the U S government in corporations.
There's a reason we should be suspicious.
There is.
But what is it about people that want to look for a conspiracy and everything?
Even if it's, you know, they wanna see,
they wanna see con trails behind jets as evidence of the government spraying
things in the sky to control our minds.
Right? So the sort of baloney detection, uh, tools are not too finely tuned.
Uh, the problem is, is that we're tendency is to look for some global,
simple explanation for complex systems. So while we all kind of recognize,
yes,
we know corporations cheat and stock traders trade with insight information,
but that's kind of small and mundane.
It's not very interesting global domination of the world. You know,
this is, Ooh, who's doing that. You know?
So then it becomes like a Dan brown novel.
It's more compelling as a narrative story about how the world works.
It's super simple.
There's these 12 guys in London called the Illuminati and they're calling the
shots and they're, they're, you know, they're controlling older burdens,
the builder burgers, the Rockefellers, the last child, the Illuminati CFR,
the new world order.
Towards Soros is doing it. He's a part of it.
Oh, totally. That's what I hear. He's number 13 in the Illuminati. There's so.
Many different competing theories too.
So a couple of criteria, the more people that have to be involved,
the less likely it is to be true. And it was Gordon Liddy that told me this,
that, you know, th th what is it? Three people can keep a secret.
If two of them are dead, you know, people can't keep their mouth shut.
And also he would know, cause he worked in government.
Most people are pretty incompetent.
So the idea that you could orchestrate a thousand people and each of them is
going to go out and do this one thing at nine o'clock Tuesday,
and it's all going to come together. Just perfect. Impossible. Yeah.
And he should know. I mean,
they couldn't even break into the Watergate hotel room to get these papers.
So who is getting into government the first place?
Are they the geniuses of the world, the heads of their field?
Or are they people that just like decided to get into a job? You know,
and this is,
this is a good percentage of the people that are involved in government.
If those people know as well,
these unexceptional folks that are just like uninspired and they're also,
they're like th do they re it's they that's right. Air quotes. They, they,
they really have the kind of wherewithal to control the whole world.
Mine control. That's my favorite. Right?
PSYOPs. I mean, this idea that, um, you know,
operatives went into the world trade center buildings, both of them,
two of the most, uh, tightly controlled and secure buildings in the world.
And under the pretense of working on the elevators,
managed to get into and break through the dry wall, to get into the main beams,
to wrap them up in explosive devices, this thermite stuff.
And this would, you know,
we know how long it takes to demolish like a stadium or a big building.
You know,
th they work they're there for weeks or months preparing all the explosive
devices. Somehow they did this and the world trade center building,
without anyone noticing not to mention all the people that worked on this,
they never told their spouses or friends or buddies, or, you know,
what they were doing, or they didn't mention it to anybody.
They don't want to go on CNN or 60 minutes ago. I saw something.
And here's what happened.
Nobody. Well, anytime you have a gigantic catastrophe like that,
just a gigantic horrific event. There's so many,
there's so much chaos.
There's so much going on that you're going to get a bunch of really wacky eye
witness accounts. Cause people just aren't good at remembering things. When,
when they're under extreme duress, it's just the fact they hear things.
They remember explosions,
they see things that aren't necessarily what was really in front of them.
And this is the human memory is one of the most flawed
ways of gathering information. Right. It's terrible. We have terrible memories.
Yeah.
Right. And everything, once something happens,
then you back up and look for all the sort of pregnant moments leading up to it
that otherwise would have been a noticeable, like, uh,
put the JFK assassination. There's a famous story about the umbrella man. Yes.
Yes. Okay. So there he is. It's a clear sunny day. Why does he have an umbrella?
And for decades there, you know, you can go online, you could see these, uh,
like, uh, examples of how the umbrella could have been turned into a rifle.
And then he shot like that. And, and anyway,
somebody finally tracked this guy down decades later and he said,
I was out there protesting Kennedy. The umbrella was a protest. Uh,
and that stems back to a Neville Chamberlain coming back after meeting with
Hitler before Hitler, annexed, I think it was a sedate and land.
And he came back and said, you know, holding his umbrella here, I had, you know,
hear a Hitler sign this paper and promised he wouldn't do anything more bad.
And so the umbrella became a symbol of, um, you know,
sort of caving into evil people or, you know, uh,
w what's the word for it? Uh, you know, appeasement, how convoluted.
Do you think people are going to get that? And.
I don't know he's out. So this is what he said. I had my umbrella to,
cause I didn't like what Kennedy was doing with Castro and the Cubans. Okay.
So in other words, the umbrella meant nothing, uh,
in terms of the assassination, right? And this is true. So like nine 11, oh,
there was this little puff of smoke or somebody found this passport over here,
this little thing that, all those little things really it's just randomness.
Well,
the other thing is the people that want to think that the windows blowing out
are indicative of some sort of a controlled demolition or the buildings caving.
It's the floor pancake. It pushes the air out, that's it?
Yeah. Well, it's,
there's never been a controlled demolition that went from the top down either.
Like the way they did it. [inaudible].
From the bottom up, right? Yeah. It's.
The one that looks crazy is a building seven tower seven. That one looks crazy.
It does, but it burned for like eight hours or something and yeah. Um,
that one's just slightly fuzzier,
but explosive experts tell me that it's fully explicable by burning all day.
So when you see the images of it collapsing,
what you don't see is the interior structure had collapsed previously.
And there's video of that when you watch the interior cave in,
and that as this fire was burning, because apparently there was obviously,
I don't know what really what happened,
but there was diesel tanks apparently in the basement and the diesel fuel had
burned incredibly hot. And the whole inside of it,
all the structure had been completely weakened. And, and then as it collapsed,
it just all gave out. It just happened to be a design.
If I was the guy who owned that building, I would Sue everybody. I mean,
that's the, I mean, he got his money back, I guess,
because there's some insurance money, but what a terrible design,
there was some.
Uh, issue with the legal insurance payout to the owner of the world trade center
buildings,
whether this was like one event or two events or one building or two w you know,
what is it?
W was it what the difference was between like 8 billion and $16 billion payout
or something like that?
How do they get people to get into that new building? I'd be like, you. I'm not,
I'm not renting an office in this building, this building.
They blew it up in 93. They blew it up again in 2001, Hey,
get outta here with this. I'm not taking a chance of this new building.
What is it? The freedom tower or something like that.
It was just a big old bullseye.
Yep. Yeah. I haven't been in it yet. I've been around it, but it's not even.
That big, uh.
Well, it's T I think it's just, I think it's taller than the.
Not, it's not, it's not as big as the original towers. Right. I think it is,
is tall. It.
Isn't. Yeah, I think, I think so. Yeah. I thought it.
Was shorter. It's definitely not as big as the one in Dubai, the Dubai,
one's like a half a mile. Right? Isn't it something crazy like that?
I don't know how tall is the tallest building. It is.
I just went to there. The one world trade center, leasing page,
it says at 1,776 feet, one world trade centers,
the tallest L E D gold certified building in the Western hemisphere.
Hmm. That's not good enough. Whatever that don't know. Some America,
we need to be number one, number one, we need to go straight to.
The moon in the solar system. We need.
To take an elevator right. To the moon, right?
Outside of space. How is that possible?
Can they build a building that's so high that it goes into space?
Why not? Yeah, I don't think so. Because structurally it wouldn't hold.
Went up to make it the shape of a pyramid.
Like why aren't trees, you know,
a thousand feet tall because the material would just collapse. And I don't,
I don't think you could have it strong. It'd have to be so fast.
Oh, that's right. Japan was going to build that space elevator. Oh, look at it.
You got jacked with the pop-ups Japan takes tiny first steps towards space
elevator. Yeah. You can off. I'm not getting in that thing.
It will take a few years before I'm willing to climb it, that sucker. But, um.
So the other problem with conspiracy is just get back there for a moment is the
problem of anomalies. What do you do with anomalies?
This is true in all science,
no theory explains every single thing that's out there that we want to study.
There's always going to be some like quirky thing that the main theory here that
explains all these things here, it doesn't account for that. Okay.
What did we do with that? Well, my joke is you assign it to a grad student.
They let them figure it out. But what, what outsiders mistake is that?
Well, my theory explains this a little anomaly.
So therefore it should replace this theory.
And so people like Neil and Sean Carroll, Lawrence Krauss,
Michio Kaku has like two webpages. One. He has a link on his webpage.
If you have an alternative theory of physics, go to this page.
So they go there and it has,
your theory has to explain all of these things over here,
that our theory currently explains and your, whatever your said anomaly is.
And of course they can't. So, um,
it's not that scientists are dogmatically closed-minded to the anomalies.
It's that we can't explain everything and you don't have to do anything with
that. Just, just leave it there.
Maybe eventually they'll pile up and there'll be a new theory,
like with Einstein's relativity. Okay. There's enough anomalies here, uh,
like the orbit of mercury and a few other things.
And so we have to modify Newtonian physics a little bit. Okay. That happens.
But for the most part, like, and so conspiracies are filled with these things.
Like the moment something big happens, you go back and okay.
But there's this weird thing here. How to explain that? I don't know.
We don't have to explain everything.